B2B marketing mistakes it's time to
finally fix your pipeline and your
Revenue
[Music]
issues welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you haven't yet why not
join thousands of B2B Legends enjoying
my unusual weekday newsletter for B2B
and sasar marketing tips insights
experiments SEO case studies and more
head over to breaking bb.com and hit
that newsletter tab to dive in so join
me today I've got Julia orov Julia heads
up marketing over at
NR Julia welcome to the show how are
we thank you hi thanks for inviting me
good great how are you doing well here
doing very well really excited to dive
in I know we've got some some hot takes
some experiments that you've been
running recently some new Concepts that
go against the grain that so many B2B
and SAS marketers often like to talk
about in places like LinkedIn
communities other channels so really
excited to dive in some to some of those
some of those findings and experiments
that you've been running recently that
do really go against the greater we're
gonna be diving into topics like some of
the top B2B marketing mistakes you're
seeing why more leads isn't always the
answer when it comes to go to market for
B2B companies how sales and marketing
can communicate and some Concepts and
and proven techniques you've had there
as well as uh the experiment you've been
running with passing off ebook downloads
to sell so excited to go into that so
let's kick things off as a starting
point Julia what are you seeing in your
day today as a marketing leader as some
of the top mistakes that that folks are
making in the Sass and B2B
space yeah
uh to Super quickly set the stage uh I I
had marketing at enr and we like as a
company we have to deal with long sales
Cycles with uh high acvs and we also
help our clients move up Market
successfully and align align sales and
marketing uh in their organizations
internally so I'm actually privileged to
be my own ICP and be experiencing the
same problems that our our Target audien
is experiencing because our target
audience are marketers who want to be uh
who want to have and demonstrate uh the
revenue impact of marketing in their
organizations so yeah like I I will be
speaking for myself but also I think for
a lot of a lot a lot of our customers at
andri I would say that the first mistake
and I I got to it myself um not not long
time ago is not real is like yeah not
realizing that marketing budget isn't
something that you get by default and in
when it comes to Long sales Cycles to
bigger deals to higher ticket
deals um it's not about whether you
should get budget for webinars or events
or SEO but it's actually about if you
should uh if you should win this budget
for Market Mar or it goes to sales and
this is about internal competition in
the company budget and resources and
hiring and everything it's it's actually
very very much limited and now I would
say that sales is in a more well I
wouldn't say privileged position because
they are under huge pressure but uh like
sales
are they they more often can come in to
the co and say like hey this is the
prediction if we hire like three more
reps this is how much revenue an average
rep brings in and let's hire three more
reps and this is how much revenue we are
we are able to bring in additionally and
marketing very often doesn't have this
privilege uh yeah we we operate a lot of
us still operate with leads and traffic
and
followers without necessarily having the
reference to the bottom line numbers how
how all of those activities are going to
impact the bottom line and when the COO
and the like head of finance and uh
revops are um are looking at okay like
this is the sales forecast they want
more uh sales reps this is the marketing
forecast they they want more budget uh
what is more likely to affect the bottom
line 90% of time sales is going to win
and actually get more budget and yeah so
I I would say that this is this is just
one super important thing to to keep in
mind and I think this this changed quite
quite a lot in the last years we became
more accountable for Revenue but we
haven't figured out the right metrics to
demonstrate this impact on Revenue so
yeah fun times for marketers I think I
don't think marketing have it's rare
that I hear that marketing have got an
easy ride
um but it's not always they don't always
do themselves that many favors so I I
can't fully take sales time but any any
regular listeners or watch this Watchers
of this show know that I often bash
marketing for various
reasons you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me now you you you raised a brilliant
point so you a sales leader could come
into the equation when it is
time for budgets and assessments and
forecasts and they could quite literally
say like we can here's the numbers we
can see that each account exec SDR sales
leader what however your organization is
structured is is bringing in this much
revenue per head so we know that if we
bring in let's say three new sales sales
reps we're likely to bring in this much
revenue in the next 12
months and then You' did a great Compass
you said marketers are often guilty of
looking at things like traffic followers
or similar metrics so what what should a
marketer do in that situation or what
maybe what do you do Julia when got that
to contend
with I can say what what what a marketer
shouldn't do uh I like the huge mistake
I was I was guilty of it myself is
starting to like put Marketing in a
competition with sales and and uh of uh
suggest something like okay let's set
outbound targets and inbound targets so
like marketing will bring 30% more
pipeline or 30% more Revenue through
inbound on top of uh sales used to ring
already this uh yeah this this is a
slippery slope really because um like
marketing should not compete with sales
for like every every Revenue dollar that
was brought in uh was it a like should
marketing be given credit for this or
should should sales be given credit for
this because um like we we are
responsible
for um very different stages of the
pipeline and very different metrics
along the buyer Journey uh because if
yeah if if the buyer journey is 100% of
the cycle sales uh are in in the last 10
to 5% of the of the buying cycle of the
buying Journey which are like of course
the most important the most trackable
and so on but marketing is who is
influencing this rest of the Bine debine
Journey that can be 90% 95% of the time
and I think the the further we go the
more uh cautious buyers become to raise
their hand and speak to sales and it it
will only be getting worse
so uh yeah we we are just responsible
for very different things
here uh and yeah like the the last the
last thing that we that we want to go
with is to start fighting over who
brought this lead who touched this
account who touched this lead for the
last time before the conversion happened
uh and so on so we were going through
this ourselves it didn't work for us
what worked for us is uh is a different
approach that uh that we are actually
practicing
now uh do do we want to dive deeper into
this we definitely want to dive dive
into it that would be awesome now can
you you mentioned that marketing a
responsible for a lot more of the the
buyer journey and sales sales typically
come in late stage but grab all the
credit give us a bit more depth on what
you believe marketing are or should be
responsible and where sales typically
chime in and then we can dive into how
you folks are addressing
that yeah well what what we are planning
for ourselves for 2025 is to uh to
actually make marketing responsible for
uh conversion rate as a metric
throughout throughout the buyer journey
and namely this would be conversion rate
from sales touch point to uh Discovery
call booked uh like actually making them
raise a hand and agree to to talk to us
uh then conversion from meting book to
qualified opportunity which would mean
that uh marketing helps sales attract
the right companies in the pipeline that
are actually able to to convert into to
qualified
opportunities uh and finally also
conversion from qualified opportunity to
closed one which would be this um
indirect or maybe even direct
confirmation of this uh of the fact
that uh absolute majority of companies
go with a with a vendor that they
shortlisted on a very much earlier stage
like very very early even before they
agreed to to have that uh to have that
meeting and this is something that
marketing I think is influencing a lot
so if they are already familiar with us
with our brand with our content with our
point of view on so many things they
will be also advocating for for going
with
us uh even even if there are some other
other vendors uh in in competition with
us m
my first question is yeah conversion is
the answer does this only work with
companies that are taking a ABM
account-based marketing approach
say yeah well
um as an AB
vendor I mean we we we are working with
with accounts um I mean we all of our
marketing activities or absolute
majority of our marketing activities is
account based uh just because we um I
mean we are privileged to have our own
platform for uh selecting scoring uh
engaging converting accounts uh of
course so this this just comes very
natural to us to Center our all of our
marketing activities around named
accounts uh but uh yeah I mean not not
every business on Earth is like that but
I believe that this this account based
approach is is the future of B2B or at
least upm Market
B2B uh because when when you think in
terms of accounts and not in terms of
leads and audiences and like other more
vague Concepts it just becomes so much
easier to align with other Revenue
functions around um how good is the the
quality of the leads that you bring in
how how good is the quality of
conversations that you are having and
more importantly it's much more
trackable because you can take this
account and you can follow all the
journey from the first touch point to
the closed one so yes of
course uh we are an ABM platform so we
will be advocating for ABM 100% of the
time makes sense I appreciate the
transparency
and yeah I mean I suppose that'll be
interested to know as well is this have
you have you folks got an outbound sales
team yes we do where do they we started
out as a very outbound driven
organization I I would say
excessively okay out B driven yeah uh
but we are now having a better balance a
healthier balance I would say yeah well
where does where does outbound come into
this
flow
um yeah as I as I said at at enrich we
uh so yeah it's it's again probably not
not very typical but enrich started as a
very outbound driven organization so at
at some point we used to have like
about uh well several several dozens of
sdrs and uh one or two or three people
in the marketing team so uh yeah
outbound was really strong for us and we
we were in this trap let's say so of
having having inbound having marketing
as a supporter to outbound something
like okay bring us some leads uh produce
some collaterals make those sales de
prer uh and so on so that's
uh I yeah I would say that for for the
last couple of years I I've been working
on on on changeing this at uh en rich
and uh yeah seeing some Success With It
uh of course yeah I would say that
outbound is
um it's uh it's an essential part of
course of of ABM I don't
know I haven't seen example of uh ABM
programs uh ABM ABM Le organizations if
we can call them like like that without
a good outbound machine uh but uh yeah
that's I mean that's a very good way and
the and very efficient way to uh to
activate the accounts that are in your
ICP that internally within the organiz
ation you agreed on on on the
definitions of your ideal customer
profile um and I mean you can you can
either run campaigns or like I don't
know publish content and wait for them
to proactively get in touch with you or
you can use the outbound motion to just
speed it up and do it in a more
controlled way so yeah three years ago I
would have said okay outbound is Spam
it's not working it it shouldn't exist
anymore but three years three years at
enri changed my mind I love to hear it I
love talking to marketers or
Founders that aren't set in their ways
or don't just because there's so much
stuff I mean as as B2B marketers and SAS
marketers we can we I certainly do I
spend a lot of time on LinkedIn
communities talking to smart folks like
you that are living breathing B2B and
SAS marketing and sadly a lot of people
seem to just dismiss strategies and
techniques before they've actively tried
it themselves like they'll say things
like outbound is dead no one wants a
cold call no one wants a cold email
ebook leads don't work just all this
generic stuff but most of the time if
you talk to them they probably not
actually tried the strategy properly or
they maybe did it once as a oneoff it
didn't work and they've ruled it out and
I love to hear it when practitioners are
actually doing stuff trying it properly
and then reporting back either way
so let's move into the next part of this
which is kind of why why more leads
isn't the answer and then perhaps you
can share more about kind of what you
folks have been doing with that
proactive outbound and running some
ebook campaigns and and what you found
through that
experiment yeah sure well we we were in
this uh era I would say as well that uh
yeah like marketing was generating
uh leads for sales sales were not happy
about those leads they they were running
their separate outbound motions uh with
with with accounts that haven't that
were not shared with marketing for the
warmup and yeah at at some point we just
we just realized that it's it's so
disjointed and and it's so inefficient
for ourselves that we that we actually
need to change it but I would say that
this is this is not this is not just for
us uh there are so many situations when
like I don't know imagine a quarterly
meeting a like I don't know yearly board
meeting or something when the marketing
leader comes in and uh starts showing
those like up and to the right graphs
with the mqls growing and uh like cost
perly decreasing and everything is so
like shiny and nice but then the sales
leader uh stepping in and saying okay
actually our our pipeline dropped our
Revenue dropped and I think I think it
gives a
very uh sad impression and says a lot
about how how the core Revenue functions
are aligned or better uh better say
misaligned uh within the company so um
yeah I would say that the root cause of
it is not being really aligned on who
the who who we are targeting as an
organization so no
proper definition of the ideal buyers of
the uh of the ICP and uh the more
concrete this ICP is the more uh
documented uh it is the better for
everyone so when it's about okay like we
we are targeting digital agencies that's
that's not ICP we we are targeting
software companies in the
US not really
ICP or something like anything like this
so uh for us what worked really well is
having uh an actual document so that's
like that's the first step uh the first
step uh document a Google doc with as
concrete IP definition as can be with uh
qualification criteria and
disqualification criteria so it's about
firmographic data uh like where are
those companies located how big they are
in terms of head count how like what
what they have in terms of Revenue how
big is the marketing team if they have
an outbound sales team or not um but
also yeah in terms of their advertising
budgets what what are they spending
their budgets
on um yeah like a lot of a lot of
parameters and those parameters this is
this is super important they should be
um like known for uh known to everyone
in the organization so it's not that the
marketing leader or the sales leader at
some Point decided to change the
criteria and say okay we are not
targeting accounts above 1,000 uh
employees because because they think
they shouldn't be targeted and no one
knows about it uh so yeah like it it it
really should be um very well known in
the
organization uh so the second step is to
have those account lists in the CRM so
okay we agreed that this is our ICP uh
those are the criteria of the companies
that we want to go after that we we are
we are already seeing success with uh so
the next step is to have those account
lists in the uh in the CRM with proper
um way to identify them like I don't
know it should be Crum property that
like this is ICP tier or like this is
ICP account or non ICP account and
finally the third step is those accounts
should be those account lists should be
synchronized across the main targeting
platforms that marketing is working with
so you have an ICP you have an account
list uh an account list of like couple
of thousand accounts it shouldn't just
live in the CRM and be just worked by
sales but it uh it should go to your
LinkedIn campaigns it should go to your
Facebook campaigns it should go to your
like account based advertising campaigns
from the platforms that you are using if
you are using them and uh those accounts
should be uh should be seen your content
uh every time like you you want to be
targeting them to make them more aware
of you to make them more ready in a way
to talk to you when they have an
internal need of a of a solution like
yours so yeah like a document with super
well documented
parameters uh in an account list in the
CRM that reflects the ICP and the the T
the audiences in the major targeting
platforms that are synchronized with
your CRM and like are targeting the
exact same accounts that's just the best
way to I would say like avoid this waste
of add dollars because if it's not like
that it goes It goes down the hill super
quickly is that a good volume or amount
of Target companies to have as an ICP
you mentioned a couple thousand is that
how many you
target uh that's that's what we are
seeing with with our clients that 1,000
to five to 5,000 accounts in the ICP is
usually uh like the um a good number to
go after but again depends on the on the
size of those companies if it's 1,000
Enterprise companies and you want to run
ad at them then good good Lu going to be
a lot of prospects within the each
account is um that was G to be my next
question actually like is there a sweet
spot in terms of I guess it depends on
company size right within how many
prospects you target inside each account
but I'm gu guessing there's a lot of
nuances to
that yeah well it's
uh yeah it's a it's it's a good number
to have and it's uh it's a good thing to
keep in mind that uh actually actually I
think marketers can be sometimes guilty
of um demonstrating this influence on an
account like I don't know we have had
two people from a huge Enterprise
account that has 10,000 employees see
our ads uh 30 days ago we like uh we
contributed to revenue we influenced the
deal that's uh yeah that's
uh an no goal I would say um again
depends I think on on the on the
industry depends on the company side but
what we are seeing for ourselves that
the buying committee is about like three
to eight people sometimes in bigger
companies up to uh up to 10 people
so if
it's less than twice this
number I think it doesn't really make
sense so yeah like identify your buying
committee like the the size of your
buying committee but also have in mind
that
uh no targeting platform can allow you
to exclusively Target that people in the
buying committee uh like go that much
contact level so multiply by two or
three or something I'd like to Target
the budget holder please that would be
lovely yeah yeah yeah yeah that's fair
the economic buyer yeah yeah the CEO
because yeah everyone everyone wants to
Target this
another another huge mistake that I see
Soo
often what are you what are you folks
typically who are you typically
targeting because you said like yourself
you you target B2B and SAS
marketers is it like CMO VP marketing
head of marketing those kind of roles or
is it a bit more
varied I would say that our Champions uh
people who who bring in enr and and the
idea of having a uh an AB platform in
the company are typically folks
responsible for marketing growth
marketing demand generation so we are
seeing success with yeah like head of
demand gen head of growth BP of
marketing sometimes in smaller companies
it's the CMO but the real magic starts
when those people manage to convince the
CEO that ABM and sales and marketing
alignment is the the company priority
because realistically you can you can
plan for whatever you want uh and you
can go to your sales leader and say hey
let's let's let's run ABM together but
until the CEO uh prioritizes this uh as
a companywide project it's unlikely
to go smoothly to be
honest it makes sense I mean
abm's quite a big investment not
necessarily in terms of cash but in ter
which it can be but I suppose it's it's
even the mindset isn't it that that
motion actually works and like you say
getting leadership behind it just like
pretty much anything in btb marketing
whether it's SEO whether it's a new
channel whether it's a new
platform the hardest part is the
internal battles usually isn't it what I
found
anyway yeah you yeah you should you
should basically change the way you you
forecast everything and it's uh yeah
it's it it often means push back from
from the finance as well because Finance
would be like okay we used to forecast
it in this way okay like 40% from
inbound 60% from outbound why why should
we do it differently so yeah absolutely
that's that's that's a shift in
mindset so talk to me about
let's annoy a few B2B marketers that say
ebook downloads are dead talk to me a
bit more about what you folks have been
up to there and how that's
worked I'm guilty of it um I'm I'm
sending PDF downloads to sales I'm I'm
sending webinar attendees to sales and
yeah
we uh yeah well I would say that um it's
uh very much black and white on LinkedIn
and uh yeah what what I've been reading
uh recently is like okay let's agree
that any eBook download isn't an mql a
webinar at n isn't an mql and mql is
only the uh the handraiser uh who
explicitly expressed uh desire uh desire
to talk to you um can work if you have
this very stable flow of of incoming
leads that just want to talk to you that
means you have a very good brand you
have very good awareness you have very
good product Market fit um and I would
say that not not all of us are part of
those organizations with super healthy
inbound Pipeline and if we if we are
thinking of launch an abian programs
right this is uh there should be a
reason for it like if if everything goes
already super well with within bound and
without bound then like usually it's
it's like okay we are not CH like we are
not trying to fix what's working already
sure uh so yeah for for us uh of course
we uh we are looking for ways to
increase pipeline this is uh like this
is an ongoing task for us as well
uh what we what we did recently we had
quite a successful campaign in terms of
um leads in terms of like uh download uh
downloads of some PDF materials that we
produced that were very much focused uh
very much centered around ABM uh about
how how exactly to uh like to collect
inant data how exactly to define the ICP
how exactly to um organize the alignment
between marketing and sales uh in your
APM program and so on and we we got
quite uh I mean a good number of of
leads who downloaded those PDF
materials and then we thought with the
SDR team uh why why not to practice what
everyone uh usually is quite against why
why shouldn't we take a sample of those
leads identify those who uh we knew were
interacting with those materials like
they opened this email with the with the
PDFs more than three times they clicked
at least like three four five times on
the on the links with those PDFs so they
just they didn't just leave their email
and forget about it as 95% of people now
do I say think but yeah we we really
identified those high high engaging
people high engaging accounts and uh
what our sdrs did uh they put together a
very customized intent report like uh
identifying potential in Market
companies in the exact industry of of
this account and like uh interested in
relevant keywords from the industry of
the account so like if it if it wasn't
like I don't know a um a mar company
like an SEO tool then the keywords
should be uh search engine optimization
like I know Enterprise SEO and so on uh
and uh yeah like our sdrs worked with 10
uh accounts with 10
companies um no with with eight
companies and yeah they they sent eight
super customized intent reports they
sourced two meetings out of those eight
tou points uh one one uh turned into an
opportunity uh but like with
with not an immediate one and the other
one turned into a very good qualified
opportunity that it's that is about to
to get closed one now so what happened
out of eight touch points uh from the
sales rep we got two meetings in the
pipeline which is
25% from touch point to pipeline what
I'm seeing as benchmarks for the SDR
Outreach for the outbound Outreach is
that called outbound normally turns 1%
of contacts into
meetings and if it's and if you're lucky
then you turn like I know two three% %
into meetings and we have 25% conversion
rate to to opportunity so I I would say
that this was this was quite a
successful experiment for us uh takeaway
here is um like it's not that as
marketing you should just identify those
contacts who signed up for a webinar or
downloaded or downloaded the PDF and uh
just send them to the to the sales reps
saying okay try to book a demo with them
and the Reps would go with like hey
would you like to book a demo so that's
that that doesn't make any difference
but if you sit together if you identify
what would be the exact offer the exact
proposal the exact value for those
accounts who interacted with this
specific type of content and make a very
customized proposal for for the those
like specific people who are also in
your ICP who are also potentially in
your buying Committee in our case those
were marketing leaders then I think when
it really starts working and the best
thing also is that your sales team start
seeing the value of marketing and they
start coming to you and saying hey do
you have more of those leads we we
actually want to be working with
marketing leads we we see that you are
actually supplying us some good
companies and uh and leads that are
ready to talk to us and this is where
the chemistry is
starting that's that's awesome that's in
awesome Intel are we able to to dive
into any of the stats against like time
resource for like fully get the process
identify the in Mar well identify the
the right accounts that have consumed
the content or interacted with with the
content enough make sure they hit hit
your ICP then build some kind of
tailored proposal plan audit offer that
we know that's that's going to resonate
with them and then I think you said was
it 20 25% of those were then agreeing to
some kind of meeting or demo whatever
that next step is what was the are we
able to share any numbers against kind
of what it costed to Source one of those
against what an end deal would look like
or time resource because I'm sure some F
would think this sounds awesome and I'm
thinking that in terms of are we able to
get any idea of kind of I guess what I'm
asking is like resource behind that
because people these days always always
looking at quick fixes but I'm very much
on your side and the fact that I like
tailoring stuff out whether that's I
don't know going one step extra and the
sales rep creating a custom loom video
or doing doing a little bit extra to
stand out so be curious to know if we
can get any more insights into kind of
the work that goes behind that and and
getting that end I guess ACV
value uh well again uh speaking speaking
of uh our numbers um of course if we if
we count all the all the let's say like
resources and budgets that were uh spent
then they cost per opportunity like cost
per qualified lead of course goes up so
um yeah like cost per
touch point I would say so it it took an
SDR at least 30 minutes to work on this
custom intent report then customizing
the uh like the
Outreach
versus um yeah
like writing a prompt to prompt for this
AI power one to one personalized that
scale called outbound tool and just
sending like I don't know 1,000 uh
emails at the same time uh so yeah like
cost per touch point of course goes up
but I I would say that it's it's also
about this internal um satisfaction of
like doing something that is making an
impact so like you send out 1,000 emails
with AI you get 300 out of office uh
automatic responses you get a couple of
like stop spamming me unsubscribe up up
subscribe me immediately get out of my
inbox and so on and maybe on a good day
you get like one or two positive
responses um but I don't think this is
like longterm it's it's good for one's
mental health to be honest I think this
is why sdrs are facing burnout more
often than a lot of other uh a lot of
other roles in the company so yeah I
would say that it's it's about making an
an impact and it's about building
building a deeper connection with your
target account and being perceived as
someone who gives value and whenever the
need of your
solution uh pops UPS pops up in the
organization uh they will think about
you
yeah yeah yeah so it's I guess does it
answer your question yeah because I mean
yeah I I didn't provide any any exact
numbers but this is this is what I'm
seeing also when I when I talk to to the
sales team to the SDR team they are just
seeing that they are making an impact
which is so
important that is important I think
that's something that also doesn't get
spoken about so I think if you can keep
the sales team happy that's that's a
win-win and at the same time if you can
craft an offer that is so much bettered
yet like you said it might take them 30
minutes of their time to put together
but then if on the back end they're
seeing a significantly better response
rate in terms of what's turning into
meetings or demos or whatever your
company's next stage is then it does
make
sense um cool so moving forward have you
have you got time to to cover the the
last few practical steps to to work
better with yourselves
team yeah sure um yeah so first one is
of course to figure out your ICP
together look at look at what are the
like the the companies that are already
generating more Revenue turning into uh
into qualified meetings convert better F
faster with higher ACV document those
criteria document the like green flags
Red Flags uh and uh make sure that you
are super very well aligned on
this uh one more small step uh super
important if you if you can offer a
monitor incentive to your sales team to
your SDR team
uh to work on uh accounts that have been
warmed up by marketing so like I mean I
will explain if they convert a midon uh
if they book a mid with an
account that was previously influenced
by
marketing uh they would get a bigger
commission so uh like with a marketing
warmed up lead this really works wonders
and it
helps Focus the the sales team on on the
prospects that on the accounts on the
prospects that you are actually
supplying to
them um and yeah the third one which
which can be the step one but sometimes
it's it's step three actually get your
Co involved get your
Co um just go and say hey guys alignment
is a priority in our company you should
should not be fighting against each
other you should not be fighting over
who gets the credit for this lead you
should be working together you have the
common goal which is Pipeline and
revenue so go and do it and it's it's
not all it's not always easy to to like
have your Co Your
Leader uh to get involved into this but
when it happens it just makes a lot of
things so much
easier love it and I think I think point
one around ICP we' we've drilled into
quite a bit
curious so sales sales team your sales
team get incentivized for actually
working the accounts that marketing have
already warmed
up as opposed to do pure as opposed to
doing pure pure cold outbound or finding
their own Prospect yes yeah yeah we uh
we tried like uh we tried actually
splitting the credit 50/50 between sales
and marketing like if if an SDR books a
million with with an account who had had
marketing touches in the past then the
credit would have been divided 50/50 it
didn't work so we were like okay why why
not do the opposite why not reward both
teams more for
collaborating and uh yeah then when we
when
I I think three months later we saw that
uh okay we are spending more on
commissions but those accounts actually
convert better convert better into
Revenue so the like the return on
investment is is very good here and then
we measured again six months later and
it became even more obvious that cold
outbound would convert from Discovery C
to pipeline at about like 20 23%
conversion rate but accounts that have
been warmed up by marketing previously
convert at 39% conversion rate so almost
double and uh and they also convert
better to revenue so it makes sense to
like offer 10% more for a mid booked if
you see the impact on Revenue that is so
much
bigger like it and so to clarify do your
marketing team and your sales team get
incentivized
now uh so it's uh uh the SDR team gets
incentivized uh a little bit more for
like lending those accounts it's a
little bit different for marketing
because we we get incentivized on
meeting our pipeline Target in general
but we have the target for like inbound
only pipeline uh like those self selfs
serve leads let's say so but also on the
accounts on the pipeline that we are
able to generate together with the SDR
team so yeah that's that's how it works
got it I like it I've not spoken to that
many marketing leaders where the
marketing team are getting
incentivized so it's a it's a nice new
one to hear cool there are and cons yeah
uh there are definitely we we are not
quite there yet like to reach in the
absolute happiness and in how we are
measured how we are rewarded but I think
comparing to where we were 12 months ago
we are much happier
now well as in marketers get annoyed
because sales earn more cash
or well I would say that it's it's still
about attribution it's still about touch
points like we we really need to make
sure that our activities our marketing
activities get like recorded in the CRM
uh it's not always possible it's not
always the case like organic social
Impressions I think you you can you
still cannot get them in the CRM and so
on so we do realize it's not 100%
measurable but at least if we are able
to measure even even a portion of our
influence that's still better and it it
makes marketing more valuable within the
organization because you can tie it to
revenue have you folks tried
incentivizing team members for posting
on social and linking back to product or
offer not yet
um no just curious because I see you
posting great stuff all the time that is
generally valuable to be in SAS Market
is and just wondered if that was a a
scheme but always curious to know but
with that
maybe yeah if if the organization up I
know I would but I most of my team are
contractors so it's it's easy for me to
say with a relatively small team but I
know as as you grow in scale it's not as
always as easy with various members of
the team to get on
side but there we go anyway you really
appreciate the conversation thanks for
thanks for being one so transparent and
secondly so practical with all the
advice so we can really tell that you
are in the field doing this stuff dayto
day so really appreciate you being so
open with kind of what's working for
your team your recommendations what
didn't work what does work what you feel
is working in the industry so I think
it's going to be really valuable for any
marketers or Founders that in thank you
yeah that comes yeah that comes as a
part of being being your own ICP so yeah
I think marketers in mtech companies
really really have this uh privilege so
yeah just just about time to remind
ourselves about it thank you for
inviting me you're very welcome just
before we wrap things up where is the
best place if folks want to learn more
about you enrich anything else you'd
like to promote where should they
go yeah uh find me on LinkedIn follow
enrich on LinkedIn go to en. to to see
what we are about to to book uh go with
us or yeah just just send me a message
and let's talk awesome and I'll put all
those links in the show notes and
descriptions below and thank you once
again ulia I really enjoyed the
chat likewise thank you so much cheers
and as always if you enjoyed today's
episode why not join thousands of B2B
and SAS marketing Legends checking out
the weekday newsletter over at breaking
bb.com for more unusual strategies ideas
case studies and experiments and with
that we should catch you on the next one
thanks for very much for tuning in see
you soon
[Music]